---
title: "Loqate Utilities Register 2.0"
---

## Introduction

This document provides a user guide help you implement Loqate’s Utilities
Register 2.0. The Utilities Register (UR) is a web service providing access to a
property’s address and meter-point data needed to provide consumers with tariff
estimates and for energy suppliers to execute a switch through the Central
Switching Service or CSS.

The Utilities Register provides you with the ability to add address and MPxN
searching into your websites and server-side applications. The service returns
both gas and electricity supply point data from a single request. Making use of
Gas and Electricity Enquiry Services (GES and EES) provided by the Retail Energy
Code Company (RECCo), the Utilities Register provides you with accurate data
that’s updated by the industry on a daily basis.

The Utilities Register can be used to retrieve meter point and other information
for a specific address. Where a complete address is not immediately available or
the implementation benefits from interactive address input, the service can also
be used for the purposes of postcode or partial address lookup, retrieving meter
point information with a follow up request in this instance. Additionally, GBG’s
service benefits from being able to verify and standardise unformatted or
‘free-format’ address strings into structured addresses, providing a far higher
chance of a successful match when searching the GES and EES. This can be useful
where a user is not present to select or validate an address. For example, when
an energy supplier receives uploads of hundreds or thousands of addresses from
Price Comparison Websites and brokers.

Critically, the Utilities Register also returns the Retail Energy Location (REL)
details, required to execute a switch within the CSS.

<Info>
  **Note**: Loqate's Utilities Register 2.0 is only available to UK customers.
  This guide is only relevant to customers who have set up Utilities Register
  with their account manager. If you haven't set up the service yet, please
  contact your account manager before accessing this guide.
</Info>

[Download the guide](https://www.loqate.com/media/31shhsfk/loqates-utilities-register-user-guide-v2-4.pdf)
